---
layout: post
title:      "Life and Coding Commonalities"
date:       2020-05-15 05:06:28 +0000
permalink:  life_and_coding_commonalities
---


One commonality between code and my life is depth. From the perspective of the user, the website they are viewing is a (hopefully) perfect representation of what the coder intended. However, the user may, likely, be completely unaware of the complexity of the paths the coder takes to transmit their intention. These strategies the coder uses defines and identifies the coder uniquely and can demonstrate the personality and versatility of the coder. This leads to another commonality between code and my life: learning. This relates to my life as I have a deep thirst for knowledge. In order to write a successful website/program/app the coder must relate to the users’ desires and have a greater understanding of the content of the website/program/app. The metaphor about the best way of learning being teaching is apt as the programmer is instructing the computer how to resolve the end users’ problems. The coder must completely understand every intricacy of the users’ needs relative to the website/program/app in order to accurately portray the desired result for the user. The process begins when the coder is presented with motivations to resolve and the coder has to utilize or teach themselves methods by which to resolve those matters through code. The programmer builds out models, quite literally, among other files and folders and gathers information to organize and accurately present to users the solution to their problems; the grind. The final portions of the process consist of adapting the websites/programs/apps to suit users’ interaction and experience with the interface. Each of these processes convey depth and require learning and instruction. I quite appreciate these commonalities I find between coding and my life and very much look forward to exploring these aspects among the many others I shall find.  
